.\"-
.\"Copyright (c) 2021, Alexander Mishin
.\"All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
.\"  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\"THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\"AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\"IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\"DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\"FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\"SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\"CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\"OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\"OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd May 22, 2021
.Dt RCRECV 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rcrecv
.Nd driver for gpio based RF receivers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To load the driver as a module at boot time, place the following line in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
rcrecv_load="YES"
.Ed
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
device driver provides support for the GPIO based radio receivers. It creates
a character device
.Pa /dev/rcrecv
reading from which returns a last received hexadecimal code as a string. Also it
provides a couple of ioctl calls:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
RCRECV_READ_CODE;
.It
RCRECV_READ_CODE_INFO
.El
.Pp
These calls returns codes as
.Pa unsigned long
and
.Pa struct rcrecv_code
respectively and can be accessed with a file
.Pa /usr/include/dev/rcrecv/rcrecv.h
after the driver is installed.
.Pp
The driver
detects pulses on declared pin with interrupt by both edges.
When the driver determines that the sequence of received pulses is a code,
it generates
.Xr poll 2
and
.Xr kqueue 2
events.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rcrecv-daemon 8 ,
.Xr loader.conf 5 ,
.Xr kevent 2 ,
.Xr kqueue 2 ,
.Xr poll 2 ,
.Xr fdt 4 ,
.Xr device.hints 5
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
device driver was written by
.An Alexander Mishin Aq Mt mishin@mh.net.ru .
